#HMS_College
Final Year College Project - A Hospital Management Software

**The complete set of rules and procedures related to hospital’s day to day activities and generating reports can be termed as HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM(HMS). Hospital Management System provides the benefits of streamlined operations, enhanced administration, control, superior patient care, strict cost control and improved profitability. This could also be done manually by an institution/hospital. But the current manual system has a ton of drawbacks which includes everything from a lot of paper work, maintain records, requiring huge physical storage, lack of security, need of expertise, etc. These problems not only affect the day to day working of the hospital but also creates economic problem. One of the major problems above all this is Time Management. **

Our Proposed System will not only automate these processes with better flexibility and accuracy, but also provide a new way to track activities. We will integrate barcode application in our System. These barcode labels will help in keeping Patient data safe, Inventory control like easy accessibility of beds, tracking patient details in a faster, reliable and easier to use way. Also in the current pandemic situation, wristband efficient barcode labels will provide a way to track patients by the guardian following all the social distancing norms. Apart from these utilities we will be making the system user friendly with rich user interfaces and model the system in such a way that it becomes expandable.

In addition to all the above advantages, there comes some issues like extra cost for cloud storage, Technology Integration Cost which may be a little disadvantageous. But with a little bit of one-time expense and periodical maintenance a lot of current problems can be solved using this software
